Hi, I'm Michael Jurewitz,
the Application Frameworks and
Developer Tools Evangelist at Apple,
and welcome to Maximizing
iPhone App Performance.
Today, we're going to focus on helping
your application perform its best,
and we're going to take a look
at everything from drawing and
scrolling performance to minimizing
power consumption and optimizing
memory usage in your application.
Now, whether you're an application
or game developer,
you'll find something to help
improve your development.
So let's take a look.
So today we're going to talk
about a whole bunch of topics.
We're going to talk about
drawing and scrolling,
application launch, memory usage,
files and data,
and power and battery life.
So to properly do performance
analysis on the iPhone,
it's important to actually be familiar
with the tools in the first place.
So let's take a look at those.
[Transcript missing]
Now when it comes to actually
choosing the right environment,
there's a couple things to be aware of.
The first is that the simulator is
an entirely valid place for you to
do quite a bit of performance work.
Really anything that
involves looking at memory,
for example,
or the overall activity on the device.
So whether you want to look
at leaks or object aleck,
you can do that all in the simulator.
And in fact, it's a lot more efficient
to do so for speed reasons.
When you use something like object aleck,
we're having to record every
single object event that
happens in your application.
That can take a decent amount of time.
And so doing that in the simulator
is nice because then you're
operating on the fast Intel processor
on your desktop or laptop.
Now, obviously,
you can also use the device,
and for the wide range of
other types of profiling,
this is what you want to use.
So anytime you're looking at graphics,
or the precise timing
of your application,
or when you want to use Shark,
you want to be doing this on the device.
So again, just make sure you're choosing
the right tuning environment.
Alright, so let's hop right in.
It's time to take a look
at drawing and scrolling.
So now the various drawing technologies
on iPhone OS are pretty diverse.
You've got Quartz, Core Animation,
OpenGL, built-in UIKit drawing,
really just a lot of
options to choose from.
And you want to make sure that you use
the built-in drawing whenever possible.
Now, UIKit views are usually very
optimized at accomplishing their job.
So UI Image View, UI Label,
they both know how to draw
to screen very efficiently.
So please use them whenever possible.
Now, when you want to take advantage
of things like animation,
you should also look at
the built-in controls,
because in many cases,
they handle animation for you
as you begin to change the
different properties on them.
So try to prefer using those as
opposed to immediately rolling
your own hand animations.
When it comes to drawing optimizations,
and once you get down to custom drawing,
you need to make sure that
you follow a couple key steps.
The first is to make sure you
mark your views as opaque.
This is absolutely critical.
Now when you create a view by default,
it comes back as opaque,
but there are some situations
where you might be tempted
to set it to be translucent.
You don't want that in most cases.
When you make a view translucent,
there's a lot of complicated
compositing work that has to be done.
The second step is to make
sure you draw minimally.
This means calling set needs display
in rect and passing in just the
rectangle in your view that is
dirty and needs to be redrawn.
Now when you do that,
you also need to make sure that
in draw rect you actually check
the rectangle that gets passed in,
so that you do only draw the
section that's in the rectangle.
Obviously, it doesn't do much good if you
pass in the right rectangle
into set needs display in rect,
and then in draw rect you
just redraw everything.
When it comes to custom drawing, again,
you want to make sure that you
cache static drawing objects,
things like images, for example.
You don't want to be constantly
loading these things from disk,
but again, once you cache them,
you do still need to be prepared
to respond to low memory warnings,
so do be prepared to release these.
A really common bug that we see
with drawing involves timers.
So when the user is using your
application and you're using
a timer to draw to the screen,
and something like a text message
comes in or a push notification,
your app gets suspended.
A lot of times people forget
to invalidate the timer
that's doing that drawing.
And when they come back
from being suspended,
they create a second timer.
And now they're drawing 60 times a
second or 120 times a second or more,
depending on how many
times they got interrupted.
That'll burn through
your battery really fast.
So do make sure that you invalidate those
old timers before you create new ones.
You also want to make sure that you use
ping files for any of your image assets.
Now we take these ping files and
we optimize them at build time.
In this case,
we convert them from an unmultiplied
RGBA to a pre-multiplied BGRA.
If you're not sure what that means,
basically all that we're doing is taking
the image and converting it to a format
that is most easily displayed fast
and efficiently by iPhone's hardware.
Now along the way,
we'll also remove some unnecessary data.
And the compression rate
may actually increase,
but in general, you'll still find that
your images look good.
Next,
let's look at scrolling performance.
Now scrolling performance is
one area where we see people
tend to have a lot of trouble,
but there are some really simple
rules that you can follow to
help increase this performance.
So first and foremost, use opaque views.
Again, anytime that you don't
use an opaque view,
we're going to have to do a
bunch of expensive compositing.
That takes time, but it's a lot of work.
And the reason why you want to use opaque
views is because it's a lot of time,
it slows down your scrolling,
and really it's pretty easy to avoid.
So make sure your views
are marked as opaque.
You also want to make sure that you avoid
allocating views while you're scrolling.
Now when you think about it,
allocation in general can be very,
very expensive.
In sort of the worst case,
you actually have to go down to the
kernel and wait for it to do a bunch of
bookkeeping to actually give you back the
region of memory for you to work with.
If you're doing this time and
time and time again while you're
trying to scroll in new images,
you're going to have to do a bunch of
bookkeeping to actually give you back the
region of memory for you to work with.
And if you're dealing with a movie
cell that looks something like this,
in this case we've got a table view cell,
we're showing a movie poster,
we've got a title, a description,
who actually was in the movie,
a rating image.
Well, there's a lot of different
views that are made up here.
You've got an image view for the poster,
you've got a UI label for the
text for the title of the movie,
another UI label for
who was actually in it,
the title of the movie,
and then you've got a table view
cell that looks something like this.
And then you've got a table
view cell for the description,
and then another UI image view
for the actual movie rating image.
So already in that relatively
simple movie summary cell,
we've got a ton of
different stuff going on.
So the way to avoid having all that
allocation is to reuse your table cells.
You do that by tagging your table
cells with a reuse identifier.
And then when you actually go into
cell for row at index path and
you're actually trying to do that,
you're going to have to do
a lot of different things.
And then when you actually go into
cell for row at index path and
you're actually trying to do that,
you're going to have to do
a lot of different things.
So now let's look at how
scrolling usually works if
you don't reuse your cells.
So you've got a table view and
you go to scroll in some content,
it comes in from the bottom,
it goes through the top,
and ends up going off screen.
And then the cells go away,
they get deallocated,
the memory gets reclaimed by the system.
And then you have to reallocate
to get new views on screen.
Now once you go and actually add in
the use of this reuse identifier,
it looks something like this.
You've got a bunch of cells.
You scroll them in.
They go on screen.
They go off screen.
And then when you have new content
that needs to come back on screen,
we take those existing cells,
bring them right back around,
and feed them right
back into the interface.
So basically,
we're just keeping a ring buffer of cells
and reusing these things over and over.
This helps you avoid allocating all
those views and lets you basically just
stuff in the new information to display.
Now, this will take you a long way,
but to get the best scrolling
performance possible,
you'll need to collapse
your cell view hierarchy.
Now, what does that mean exactly?
Well, we've got our cell here,
in this case, this movie summary cell.
And we've got all these individual views.
And we've got all these
individual views that we're
actually displaying in the cell.
If we wanted to collapse
the cell view hierarchy,
we would end up with a cell that
looks something more like this,
where we just had a single view,
in this case, this movie view,
that knows how to draw
all of its contents.
By moving to this model,
we're able to just have one view
do the drawing and just composite
all that information once,
as opposed to having to ask each and
every individual view to do its drawing,
Michael Jurewitz and then
stitch that all together.
Now,
if it's not clear what's happened here,
conceptually we've gone from our
table view cell with its content view,
and that content view of course
has pointers to all the different
sub views that it's displaying.
So we've gone from this
to just a single view,
this movie view.
So let's go ahead and
hop into a demo here.
And I'm going to start off with
an application that doesn't
scroll too well and show you how
you can help it scroll faster.
So let's take a look at a
really simple demo application.
In this case here,
we're just going to take a look at an
application that shows a list of movies.
So I'm just going to
select Build and Run,
and let's take a look
at this on the iPhone.
Okay, our application is launched and
we've got our user interface here.
Now we can go scrolling
through the data that's here,
and we see that this scrolls fairly well,
but it's a little clunky in places.
We see a couple little jerks as we
go scrolling through this content.
So we can actually take this
behavior and make it even better.
So let's go back to instruments and
try to figure out what's going on.
So we're going to take our
application that we've already built,
go to the Run menu,
and select Run with Performance Tool.
Now we're going to take a
look at object allocations.
This will go ahead and
start up instruments,
and in this case it's going to start
the application on our iPhone again,
and we're going to get a chance to see
our memory usage live on the device.
So now if I go to the iPhone and just
start scrolling through the content,
things are going to be
a little bit slower,
but in this case it's because
we're recording a lot of
information from the iPhone itself,
so this is okay.
What we want to pay attention to
is what's actually happening to our
graph of objects in instruments.
We see that this graph is
slowly growing over time.
That's not the kind of thing that you
want to see as you're just scrolling
through a static list of content.
So I'm going to go ahead and
stop this and see if we can
figure out what's going on.
Now, as you begin to tackle
these kind of problems,
you want to think to yourself, well,
self, what sort of classes am
I working with at this point?
Well, obviously, we've got a table view.
It's got table view cells.
So let's go ahead and search for cell.
Now we see all the different allocations
that we have for this movie summary cell,
which is the cell subclass that
we're using in our application.
In this case,
you'll notice that we have 127
objects that are still living and 127
objects overall that we've allocated.
This is not the kind of
thing that you want to see,
especially when your table view
only has 20 or 30 items in it.
This is our first indication
that there's probably a leak
that we need to take care of.
So let's go ahead and take a look at
this movie summary cell and see if
we can figure out what's going on.
I'm going to click this arrow right
here and this will jump to all of
the individual allocations that I've
made of this movie summary cell.
And you'll notice that all along
the way I see which ones are
still alive with this black dot.
Now I'm just going to select
any one of these things because
they all look to be the same.
And if I click the button for the
extended detail view down here,
I'll get a chance to see a back trace
for each one of these allocations.
And this is going to be the same as the
back trace for the movie summary cell.
In this case, I can see exactly where
this allocation came from.
And we see this line
in my code right here,
this movies view controller table
view cell for row at index path.
That makes sense.
So let's double click that.
And in instruments,
we actually get a chance to see the
actual allocation that took place.
We see that I've allocated
and knitted with a style.
In this case,
I've just passed in the default style.
I'm not using a reuse identifier.
And moreover,
I've not actually releasing this cell.
So let's see here.
Do we ever release it?
Nope.
Well, that's a problem right there.
The table view expects to be
receiving an auto-release object.
And since we haven't auto-released it,
this is getting leaked as we go
scrolling through our application.
So let's click the Xcode
button here to jump to Xcode.
We jump directly to the source
file that we want to work with.
And I'm going to go ahead and just
add auto-release to this method.
And I'm going to Thank you.
We see Xcode adds the bracket for me.
I'll hit save, and now I'm just going
to build my application.
Go into the build menu
and selecting build.
We see it succeeds.
And now I'm going to go back
to Run with Performance tool
and go to Object Allocations.
We'll reinstall the application
onto our iPhone and we'll
launch back into Instruments.
All right, we see that we've been
recording some data here.
We've got some information
about our application.
And now what I'm going to do is go ahead
and scroll through this data again and
let's see what happens in Instruments.
So I go scrolling through.
Again,
things are kind of slow because we're
collecting a bunch of information about
these individual allocation events.
And as I look back at instruments,
I can see that the
graph is flat over time.
This is exactly what you want to see.
If I hide this extended detail view,
you notice that we've
allocated 60 cells overall,
which is less efficient than we could be,
but we only have six
that are still living,
which is exactly what makes sense
based on about how much content
we're able to fit on the screen.
Okay, so we've tracked down this
leak and we've fixed that.
But we're still not reusing
our table view cells.
So let's go back to that
same code and make that fix.
So I'm going to go back
to my Xcode project.
And in this case,
I want to change this reuse identifier.
So I'm going to go ahead and just
insert some new code here and get rid
of the old code that we previously had.
So we see now we're declaring
an NSString with this
movie summary identifier,
and we simply pass this in to
DQ reusable cell with identifier.
Now if there are any cells to reuse,
we'll go ahead and have
one handed back to us.
If we get back nil,
it's our indication that we
need to go ahead and create
a new movie summary cell,
which we do here.
After that, we go ahead and set the new
content into our particular cell.
Here we're just updating the
information that it's going to display,
and then we return
that to the table view.
So now I'm going to go ahead
and build this project again.
And then go to the Run menu and again
select Run with Performance Tool and
take a look at Object Allocations.
And we'll go ahead and install
this application on our iPhone.
We launch into instruments and
immediately begin collecting
data about our application.
We can see our movie summary
cell is now showing up.
And as I begin to scroll
through my application,
we'll see that the number of overall
cells that have been created is seven,
and the number living is also seven.
That's exactly what you want to
see with table view cell reuse.
As you go scrolling
through your application,
if you're properly reusing
your table view cells,
they should stay pretty much stationary
right around a reasonable number
of cells to be displayed on screen.
So that's great.
We fixed that bug.
Now if I go ahead and just launch this
application one more time on the phone,
you'll get a chance to see some of the
difference that this actually made.
So we'll go back to the iPhone,
launch our application.
And as I go scrolling through here,
you'll notice this is already scrolling
much faster than it was before.
It's much more responsive with my finger,
and you see we can go through a
lot of content without any skips.
Now as it turns out,
we can actually do even better than this.
So let's go back to instruments.
The next thing we want to look at in
our application is make sure that we're
not doing any unnecessary compositing.
So I'm going to go ahead and close
this document window in instruments.
Now we're going to bring up a new one.
And in this case, I'm going to go to the
Core Animation instrument.
Now the Core Animation instrument
lets you see lots of really
detailed information about
how you're doing your drawing.
You'll see we have the
instrument selected up here.
And if I go and bring in the individual
information on this instrument,
there's a bunch of different
options for me to choose from.
The one that we're going to be using
primarily is Color Blended Layers.
Color Blended Layers is going to
change the color of any user interface.
It's going to change the color
of any user interface element
in our actual interface that
happens to be getting composited.
Now some other really useful ones to use
are things like Flash Updated Regions.
This is going to flash a
region of the screen yellow any
time you update that content,
usually through redrawing.
This is a great way to check
that rectangle that you pass into
DrawRect and make sure that you're
only drawing the minimal amount.
So now what I'm going to do is go ahead
and click this color blended layers.
And I'm going to do this with my
application already active on the phone.
So let's take a look at the phone first.
So I've got my application
up on the phone,
and I'm going to go ahead and click
color blended layers and instruments,
and boom, you see the color changes
in my interface immediately.
And I get a chance to see all the
different places where I'm compositing.
Now the key here is that green
means good and red means bad.
So all of these different
places where we've got text,
you can see we're compositing
all this information,
and that's slower than it could be.
So let's go back to our code and see if
we can figure out why this is the case.
So we'll go back to Xcode.
And in this case,
I'm lucky enough to have been
the author of this project,
so I know a little bit about
how this actually works.
So I'm going to go ahead and
go into my movie summary cell.
And I've got a method here
for creating a new label.
And we see, sure enough,
here I set clear color as the
background color for the label.
Now, if you're clever,
you've probably thought to yourself,
well, wait a second.
If I've got a table view,
of course I want the background
on the label to be clear.
Because when a user taps on a row,
I want it to properly highlight.
Well, yes, you're right.
You do want that.
But as it turns out,
the UIKit engineers have already
thought about this for you.
And so all you need to do is
actually specify whatever color
you want as the background for
your cell to avoid compositing.
Say something like white color.
And when the user
actually selects the row,
we will go through the view hierarchy
and properly take that label and
turn its background to clear so the
background gradient can shine through.
And if the user deselects that row,
we take care of setting
it back to what it was.
So again,
the proper thing to do in this case
is to take out this clear color and
go ahead and use white color instead.
I'll go ahead and save and
hit build and run to redeploy
the application to my phone.
And with the application launched,
we can see we've got a
nice green interface.
This is what you want to see,
just the sea of green.
This is your way of knowing that you're
not doing any unnecessary compositing.
All right, so that's great.
Let's go back to Xcode.
So it turns out you can actually get
one step better than any of this.
So let's look at a different
version of our project.
In this case, we're going to look at what
happens when you go ahead and
collapse the cell view hierarchy.
Now, for our application,
we've gone ahead and we've done a
bunch of laying out of different views,
and all these views are doing their
own drawing and then compositing
their information together.
But that has some associated expense.
Now, if you want to get the
smoothest possible scrolling,
you need to collapse
your cell view hierarchy.
And basically,
all that means is you're implementing
a single view that knows how to do
all of the things that you're doing.
all of the drawing.
So let's take a look at what
that drawing code looks like.
In this case we just look at the
Draw Rect for our Movie Summary view.
And we can see that it's
really pretty straight forward.
You know, first we set up the title
font that we want to use,
we set up the color we
want to use for this font,
we go and grab the rating
image that we want to use,
and then it turns into a bunch of,
basically, just math to figure out where
we want to draw all this stuff.
So what's the title point?
Where do we actually want
to be drawing the title?
How do we want the text
to either break or not?
We take care of drawing that text.
We take care of drawing the
image into our particular view.
We go ahead and we check to see, hey,
does this movie have a cast that
we want to list out and show?
Does this movie have a synopsis
that we want to list out and show?
And how about a thumbnail image to show
for the actual movie itself as well?
So as we can see,
it's quite a bit of code to get
done all this different drawing.
So it's not without some effort
that you'll have to get this done.
But let's take a view at our application,
and see just how fast it really scrolls.
So we'll build and run
with this application,
and go to our iPhone.
And now when we go
scrolling through this,
we see this is just silky smooth.
This is ultra-fast scrolling performance.
Really incredible.
Now,
you get this fast scrolling performance,
but the one downside is that all
of these individual rows here are
now just flat bitmap graphics.
And so you won't get things like
cell row highlights by default.
You're going to have to handle
that logic for yourself.
You also won't get things
like copy and paste support.
So if you want to implement
in that in your application,
you're going to have
to handle that custom.
The other thing you don't
get is accessibility,
which is a big downside,
especially if you've got
users with special needs.
So you need to make sure that you weigh
the considerations here before you
necessarily dive down to this method.
But in any event,
this is how you're going to get the
best scrolling performance possible.
Now, if you were to do something
like this on a 3GS,
you might not notice the
difference between the different
optimizations that I showed you.
But remember,
we still sell the iPhone 3G.
In fact, it's a very popular device.
And so you want to make sure that
you're eking out all of these different
performance improvements that you can.
All right, let's head back to the slides.
Alright,
so you've had a chance to see just how
easy it is to help your application
scroll faster and perform at its best.
And you also saw how powerful Instruments
is and how you can get lots of detailed
information about it to understand
how your application is performing.
Alright, so in summary,
we've taken a look at marking your
views as opaque so you can avoid
all that unnecessary compositing.
We've talked about drawing minimally,
so using set needs display and rect,
and actually checking the
rectangle that gets passed in.
We've talked about reusing table cells,
and also using ping files and
making optimal use of the hardware.
Alright, so we've talked about
drawing and scrolling,
let's go into application launch.
Now when it comes to application launch,
you want to make sure that
you're designing your application
for fast launch and short use.
When you think about iPhone in general,
this is a device where people are pulling
their phone out at a moment's notice
and using your application in context.
Maybe they're on a street corner
and they're trying to pull out
some valuable piece of information
from your actual application.
Or they just want to get one
really important thing and
then get on with their life.
So you need to make sure that you
consider the user's immediate need.
And to do that,
you need to make sure that your
app launches and quits really fast.
Now the key here is to get your
UI on screen as quickly as possible.
And actually,
for one of the first times in your life,
this is a time when it's
OK for you to be lazy.
In fact,
you want to design your apps for that
fast launch and short use by being lazy,
by doing as little as
possible on app launch.
So this means if you've got data,
load that lazily.
Wait until you actually need it.
You want to make sure that you've
got a small nib file and that
your initial UI is very compact.
If you've got other images or assets or
different views that you need to load in
but they're not on screen at the start,
be lazy.
Put it off.
Wait until you actually need them.
You also want to make sure that you don't
perform synchronous network operations
in application did finish launching.
That is just a recipe for bad times.
Doing that might put you in a situation,
if the user has a bad cell connection,
where it'll take a long,
long time to get back data or
whatever it is that you happen to
be trying to get off the network.
That might take potentially
more than five seconds,
in which case iPhone is going
to wonder why you haven't been
servicing the user events and
your application might get quit.
So please,
use the asynchronous version for
networking if you must do stuff in
the application did finish launching,
or kick off an operation in the
background to load in your data
or do whatever else you need.
So let's take a look at a
couple examples in Apple's own
applications for how we do this.
The first is the phone application.
Now in the phone application,
we only load the visible UI that we
actually need at that particular moment.
So if a user launches the app and
they're on the keypad by default,
we only actually end up loading all the
different image assets for the keypad.
We're not, for example,
loading up all the assets for
voicemail or for recents or favorites,
and we're not going through and loading
up the entire contacts database.
So this is an example of how you
want to structure your application.
You want to make sure that
you're only bringing back
what's necessary at that moment.
If you take a look at
something like YouTube,
for example, this is another great
example of how to be lazy.
So YouTube fundamentally
is an application that is
dependent on the network.
You've got to be able
to bring back content,
in this case the movies,
to show to the user.
But it'd be a real drag if when the
user launched the application they just
had to sit there and wait and wait and
wait for all this content to come in.
So instead, what YouTube does is when
you launch the application,
we actually give you a fully functional
UI to begin navigating around.
And we simply put up this indeterminate
progress indicator and let the user know,
"Hey, we're loading the data." This is
great because maybe you don't want to
see what was most viewed this week.
Maybe you want to see what's featured,
for example.
So again, be lazy.
Defer those network operations.
Defer expensive loading.
Save it for when the
user wants to see it.
actually needs that particular data.
Alright, so that's application launch.
Let's go ahead and talk
about memory usage.
Memory is a big topic on iPhone,
so let's hop right in.
We're going to cover
a lot in this section.
We're going to take a quick look at an
overview of how memory is used on iPhone.
We're going to talk about static memory,
dynamic memory,
your application footprint,
and also take a pretty in-depth
look at memory warnings.
So let's take a look at how memory
is used on iPhone in general.
So just from the start, graphics.
We've got 12 megabytes of memory that
get wired off for graphics usage.
On top of that,
we've got 32 megabytes of memory
that gets used by the kernel.
It gets wired by the kernel.
It needs a bunch of static
known addresses to work with.
So,
another 32 megabytes right off the stack.
We've got another 12 megabytes or so
that are all the different daemons
that are running on the phone.
So this is everything
from Media Server D,
which is basically the iPod process,
to all the different things
that basically make the phone a
phone and help all the different
subsystems to keep running.
On top of that, you've got Springboard.
Springboard is the presentation
layer on the phone,
and so it's always running,
whether it's showing your applications
or whether it's actually taking
care of showing the different
images in your application.
So Springboard actually handles
all of the display on iPhone,
even when your app is the front most.
And now, in addition to all of that,
you've got the actual phone process.
Remember that whole reason that the user
had bought the phone in the first place?
Well, that's got to run in the background
because we've got to be able to make
sure that we listen for incoming calls,
voicemails, texts, etc.
And that's another four
megabytes on top of all of that.
So really, if you look at this usage and
you've got a first generation
iPhone or an iPhone 3G,
you're talking about over half of
the available memory is already used.
And that's a lot off the top,
but remember, this is exactly why the
user bought the device,
because they want all
these great features.
So your application has got to deal
with basically what's left over,
and you need to make sure you're
being as efficient as possible.
So let's take a look at
the virtual memory system.
Now it's there but
there are some caveats.
There's no swap file on iPhone.
So any information that's writable,
basically any of the memory that
you've malloc in your application,
has to stay in memory.
That means you're fundamentally
limited by the total amount
of memory on the device.
Now we do allow you to
evict read only pages.
So if you have images or other
assets that for example you've
memory mapped into your process,
we can go ahead and
evict those if needed.
But in general anything that's writable,
you're going to have to
be very efficient with.
So now, there is a virtual
memory system on iPhone.
It's not like you're actually sharing
memory with other processes on the phone.
But you have to do all the
management of that memory.
So if you're using Objective-C,
it's your usual alloc and init,
your retain, release, auto-release.
There is no garbage collection for you.
Now, if you're using standard C or C++,
it's everything that you would expect.
It's your malloc and free,
your new and delete, etc.
Now when it comes to static memory,
it's all about reducing
things like code size.
So what is static memory?
Well, usually it's things like your
actual application binary.
Remember,
we actually have to read that binary
into memory to be able to execute
all the individual instructions.
Now, again, this is the binary,
not the app bundle itself,
so it's just the executable code.
Now to reduce that code size,
you either want to build your
binary for thumb or thumb 2.
Now, thumb is a 16-bit instruction set.
It's basically a subset of
the ARM instruction set that
was present on iPhone and
iPhone 3G and the iPod Touches.
Now, it's 16-bit,
and so ultimately you're saving
space on each individual instruction.
However, in thumb, there was no native
floating point access.
And so the processor would actually
have to thunk over to a 32-bit mode in
order to actually do any floating point,
which took some time.
So if you were somebody
like a game developer,
thumb was not something that
you generally could use.
Now, on iPhone 3GS,
you've got the ability to use Thumb 2.
Thumb 2 is a hybrid 16 and 32-bit
instruction set that does give
you native floating point access.
And this is something that
you should use all the time,
whether you're a regular application
developer or a game developer.
Now you also want to make sure
that you're not using compiler
options that you don't need.
In general,
you want to avoid C++ exceptions and
avoid runtime type identification.
Now if you look at how we generally
handle the exception model in
Objective-C sort of as a whole,
but in our frameworks
like Foundation and UIKit,
we reserve exceptions for
exceptional circumstances only,
usually things like programmer error.
So if you've got any code that's
built around a working model of
throwing exceptions left and right
as a general mode of communication,
you want to move away from that.
It's going to be much less
memory efficient than you'd like.
When it comes to runtime
type identification,
this is usually a facility that
people use in C++ when they're
loading in dynamic libraries and they
need to identify the type of a class.
Well on iPhone,
you're only ever using static
libraries to begin with,
so they're getting linked
in as part of the compiler.
But on C++, you're only ever using static
libraries to begin with,
so they're getting linked
in as part of the compiler.
So you should have all the information
you know to directly refer to
these classes at compile time.
So in general,
avoid runtime type identification
if possible as well.
Now when it comes to dynamic memory,
you want to make sure that you
avoid auto-releasing objects.
And the reason for this is that
auto-release can be expensive.
And now, it's not expensive in the
way that you would expect,
like it takes the call
a long time to execute.
The call itself is actually quite fast.
The expensive part is that when
you send auto-release to an object,
what you're basically saying
is that you want this object to
also be sent a release message
at some point in the future,
usually once you've reached
the end of the event loop.
Now, although that object is going
to get that release message,
so it is going to get cleaned up,
it might not get cleaned
up quickly enough.
Maybe later on in some of the same code,
you're doing a lot of allocations
and you run out of space.
Well, if you've got a lot of
auto-released objects,
there's nothing you can
do now to get rid of them.
So, in general, you want to prefer direct
allocation instead of convenience
methods wherever possible.
So, for example, with NSString,
use alloc and init with format
as opposed to string with format.
And you also want to make sure
that you just allocate wisely.
So it's quite a right to cache objects,
but you want to make sure that
you're caching the right objects.
You don't just want to go
willy-nilly and decide that,
oh, hey, all these different objects
I'm definitely going to need
to reference at some point,
so I'll hold on to them.
That's going to be a recipe for
running into memory constraints.
So you want to make sure that you
cache frequently used objects,
but be prepared to
release them if you can,
if needed,
usually when you get a memory warning.
You also just want to make sure that you
free objects when you're done with them.
If you're finished using an object and
the user has gone away from that screen,
feel free to go ahead and get rid of it.
And you can monitor all this information
in ObjectAlloc in Instruments.
Now when it comes to properties,
in general you want to make sure that you
declare your properties as non-atomic.
Now properties by default are atomic.
Now this means they provide a
certain degree of thread safety.
Basically they're making sure that
the setting of this value as well
as the getting is an atomic access.
Basically if you have two different
threads that are trying to write two
different values into the same property,
you're going to get one
of those two values.
You're not going to get some
munged combination of the two.
But under the retain-release model,
this level of protection comes at a cost.
And so access can be up to 10 times
faster by switching to non-atomic as
the declaration on your properties.
Now the one downside is that now
these properties won't necessarily
be thread safe for you to use,
but if you need that thread safety,
if you want that atomicity,
you simply need to remove
that non-atomic keyword,
recompile, and you'll get that all back.
So when it comes to
image and layer memory,
it's important to remember
that the images and layers
that you're working with might
be small objects by themselves,
but they potentially have a very
large backing store depending on
how many pixels they're actually
trying to display on the screen.
And in order to display
this on the screen,
it has to be uncompressed.
So you've potentially got a very,
very large amount of memory dedicated
towards all of this graphics work.
Michael Jurewitz
Now it's also important to note
that the layer backing stores,
these images,
etc., that you end up actually displaying
onto the screen end up being shared
memory between your app and Springboard.
So anytime you go to do this drawing,
we've got this shared memory region
so that Springboard can actually be
the thing that draws to the screen.
Now one thing that really bears
repetition is the fact that compressed
image formats are compressed.
Oftentimes people think that an
image that's small on disk means
that it's also small in memory,
but that's just not the case sometimes.
It's all about how big the image
actually is in terms of resolution.
Because remember,
it's four bits per pixel to
actually draw that image.
Red, green, blue, and alpha.
So if you've got a 320x480 image,
you're already talking about something
that's over 600 kilobytes of data.
If you've got an image that's roughly
the size of a desktop background,
1600 by 1200,
you're talking about over seven
and a half megabytes just to
actually display that image.
And now if you're talking about
an image that's come in from
a high-res digital camera,
say a 10 megapixel image,
well that's 40 megabytes
to display all that data.
Now all of this is to say that
you need to make sure that you're
properly sizing your image assets
for their use in your application.
So if you've just got a small button
that you need to show on screen,
for example, or some sort of badge
in your application,
produce the graphic at the
resolution that you need.
Don't start off with some huge
graphic and then just try to
scale down for the drawing.
You're going to end up wasting
a lot of memory in the process.
Now speaking of images,
let's take a look at the different image
API that you can use and how they behave.
So first we'll take a look
at UIImagesImageNamed.
Now ImageNamed caches the uncompressed
image that it loads in memory.
This API is actually used
by InitWithNibName to load
your different images.
So if you've got large images
that you need to actually load,
you should use different
initializers as part of ViewDidLoad.
And I'll talk about some of those
different initializers in a moment.
Now, image named is really quite useful
when you've got lots of small,
frequently used images.
And it's even more useful on 3.0 and
above because we're much more aggressive
about clearing the cache of these images
when a memory warning is received.
Now, it's important, though,
to make sure in order for
this cache to be cleared,
you have to make sure that you free
any references to these images that
you might have in your application.
Otherwise, we're going to assume, hey,
you're using this image,
you might want to display it soon.
This isn't a cache
that we can get rid of.
So again, though,
if you've moved away from
this API back in the 2.x days,
it's time to come back.
The behavior for image named is
much better in 3.0 and above.
Next, there's UI image in it with data.
Now here you simply pass in the
NSData that you want it to load
into an image representation,
and the method just retains the
actual NSData that you pass in.
On a memory warning,
you should release this NSData if
you can easily recreate it.
The other option is for you
to use the NSData in it with
contents of mapped file.
This is going to let the system
be able to push that mapped file
back out to the disk if possible.
But using that can be
a little bit difficult,
and sometimes people forget to call
initWithContents of mapped file,
and instead just call
initWithContents of file,
which is much less performant.
So instead,
you really should probably be using
something like initWithContents of file.
In this case,
we only retain the path that you
actually pass into this method,
and we lazily load the image.
Now, on top of all that,
we will actually take a look at the path,
we'll take a look at the image on disk,
and depending on how big it actually is,
we'll choose to either memory map
that image into memory or not.
So you really get a lot of powerful
behavior out of this single API.
So really probably where you want to
spend most of your time is with this API.
So again, in summary, for image named,
we cache the uncompressed
image in memory.
For init with data,
we cache that compressed NSData.
And init with contents of file,
we don't do any caching, because again,
we simply load that when needed,
and we will load that into
memory in different ways,
depending on how big the actual image is.
With image named,
you want to make sure that
you release any references.
And if you've got large images,
you really should be using
something like init with data
or init with contents of file.
When you get a memory warning,
make sure that you try to release
the NSData that you were using if
you use the init with data method.
And with init with contents of file,
simply try to release the
actual image asset if you can.
Alright,
let's talk about low memory warnings.
Low memory warnings really are
just a fact of life on iPhone.
Now you've got one
foreground application,
but remember there's many processes
that are running at a given time,
and each one of these
processes consumes memory.
So let's take a look at a typical usage
in your application and how the system
would deal with increasing memory usage.
Alright,
so let's look at the typical memory
consumption in an application over time.
Now as total system memory grows,
you eventually reach a threshold
where we send out a warning,
basically asking all the different
processes on the system to
free up memory if they can.
This will go to your process,
it goes to all the various
background processes on the phone,
and they will take whatever steps
they can to try to help alleviate
some of the memory pressure.
In general though, at this point,
usually it's the foreground app or your
application that's using the most memory.
Now if total system
memory continues to grow,
eventually we reach a threshold where
the frontmost app will get killed.
And of course, the system then continues
on its merry way.
Now, let's take a look at an
overview of how total memory
is used on iPhone in general.
Now, if we look at just sort of
the broader categories here,
we can see that it mostly just breaks
down to memory that is either free,
reclaimable, or already allocated.
Basically,
free and reclaimable are what the
system care about because as that
amount of memory gets smaller and
smaller is when we're going to start
sending out those memory warnings.
And eventually,
we reach that threshold where
the system basically is operating
defensively to quit that frontmost
app in order to keep the rest of
the device stable so that a user can
continue to use their phone as a phone.
And again,
since 3.0 and above were much better
about quitting background processes
when a memory warning is received.
So things like Safari and Mail will
get cleaned up in the background.
Now you might have some situations
where you get a low memory crash
report and you see that these
processes were still alive.
So usually this is the case
when you've tried to allocate
too much memory too quickly.
In that case, the system just has to be
defensive and it simply has to say,
whoa, you've asked for way too much.
I'm just going to quit this process
here as opposed to trying to
service this request and putting
the rest of the device in jeopardy.
So when it comes to low memory warnings,
don't ignore the signs.
And it's important to remember,
any app can create these
low memory conditions.
It might not necessarily just be you.
So for example,
mail might be going out and
fetching a bunch of emails,
but that's precisely the
behavior that the user specified,
that they wanted.
They wanted mail in the background
to go and retrieve these messages.
So you need to be a good citizen.
You need to basically help the
system be as efficient as possible.
So expect memory warnings.
They really are just a
normal mode of operation.
And make sure you respond to them.
A failure to respond will probably
lead to your app being terminated.
Don't just ignore them.
So what should you do?
Well, you should release any object
that you can reconstruct.
You should release cached objects.
You should unload cached resource files,
sounds, data, images, etc.
And above anything else,
don't ask the user to do anything.
There's nothing they can do.
It's not like they're going to be able to
use your application more conservatively.
Your memory usage is your memory usage,
and you as a developer simply need
to be as efficient as possible
and to respond to these warnings.
Now luckily,
there's lots of different opportunities
for you to respond to these things.
You've got your app delegate,
view controller subclasses,
and direct notifications.
So let's take a look at the
app delegate at application
did receive memory warning.
So let's say on your app delegate you
have some object that you vend back.
In this case,
we've got some breadcrumb store,
some shared singleton that we're
handing back to people who need to
get access to these breadcrumbs.
So in this case,
we've defined our accessor entries
to basically check to see if our
instance variable is already set.
If it's not, we go ahead and we take care
of loading that shared store,
setting the instance variable,
and then returning.
And now subsequent requests for
this particular accessor will
just return the instance variable.
Now if we receive a low
memory warning though,
we'll go ahead and take care of releasing
that particular instance variable and
making sure that we set it to nil.
Setting it to nil is particularly key.
You want to make sure that you
nil out that instance variable
so that if anybody else tries
to talk to that piece of memory,
they don't end up
talking to a dead object.
You want to make sure that
they are just messaging nil,
which in this case is safe.
So now you've cleaned up the memory,
next time somebody asks for the object,
you'll reconstruct it just fine.
So you've gone from having the
object to nicely cleaning it up
when a memory warning comes in.
[Transcript missing]
So, we might have an accessor that looks
something like this when we want to
actually design correctly to release
these resources on a memory warning.
In this case, we've got this shared
instance that we're returning,
and again,
all we're doing is checking to see
if we have the instance variable set.
If we don't,
we alloc and init the object.
We then go ahead and add ourselves
as an observer for the notification
for UI application did receive
memory warning notification.
And then finally, we return our instance
variable to whoever called us.
Now, you'll notice the selector we passed
in was this received memory warning.
And so, if this notification
happens to get posted,
then in our class,
we simply need to implement
that received memory warning.
That method will get
called and we'll know,
hey, it's time for us to clean up memory.
So, we will go ahead and release
that instance variable,
set it to nil, and then make sure that we
remove ourselves as an observer.
So,
we've got this shared instance variable
that we've got to remove ourselves as an
observer from the notification center.
So, again,
you must respond to low memory warnings.
They really are just a
fact of life on iPhone,
and you need to do your part to help
the system be as stable as possible.
And also,
failure to respond to them might
lead to your app being terminated.
So, another good reason to make sure that
you actually try to relinquish memory.
And again,
remember that other apps may actually
cause these low memory conditions,
but this is what the user wants.
They've asked for these other behaviors
to be happening on the device.
Next,
let's talk about auto-release pools.
Now, every time an event comes
into your application,
we take care of creating an
auto-release pool for you.
And this brackets any of the different
allocations that you do in that code so
that things get properly released once
you finish processing that current event.
However, as you continue to write code,
and you might have an algorithm
that looks something like this,
where maybe you're loading in a bunch
of text and iterating through stuff and
creating a bunch of temporary objects,
you might end up in a situation where
you slowly start strangling yourself
on all these temporary objects that
are sticking around and not going
to go away until you've finished
processing that entire current event.
Now,
in order to avoid this kind of situation,
you want to take a look at the following.
Take code like this and nest them
in their own auto-release pool.
It turns out this is really easy to do.
It's just NS auto-release pool,
alloc init, and then at some point
later in your code,
you want to bracket that
with the pool drain.
Drain has the side effect of releasing
the pool as well as causing release
to be sent to all the different
objects that happen to have been
auto-released between those two methods.
And now you'll go from creating a
bunch of objects... ...and then we hit
the for loop and we create some more,
to we come right back
around the while loop,
and they get cleaned up,
which is exactly what you want.
And of course, then,
next time you go through,
you're creating some more objects,
but again, they get cleaned up.
Exactly what you want.
So in summary, for memory,
you want to make sure you use
the right compiler settings.
You want to minimize your object
lifetimes as best as you can.
Absolutely eliminate memory leaks.
Those will just kill you in the end.
And make sure that you respond
to low memory notifications.
All right, so we're moving along.
Let's take a look at files and data.
So now when it comes to
actually reading data,
you want to make sure that you use
memory mapping for large files.
This avoids loading the entire
file into memory at once.
You can do this in a
number of different ways.
You can use MMAP and of course
MUNMAP once you're done with a file,
or you can use NSDATA's
In It With Contents of Mapped File.
Now this is very, very important.
In It With Contents of
Mapped File is cheap.
That's what does the memory mapping.
In It With Contents of File is expensive.
That's what's going to load the entire
thing into memory as is at that moment.
So make sure you use the right one.
Now,
if you've got large data sets or really
just about data sets of any size,
you really should be using core data.
You avoid having to load the
entire data set into memory.
You get the ability to only
load windows of data through
a mechanism called batching.
And it's really easy to create model
objects and add your own custom behavior.
When it comes to download performance,
you want to make sure that you
don't include unnecessary files.
And this might seem kind of silly,
but we've seen this
more than a few times.
In this case,
we've actually seen people who have
included their subversion directories
in their actual applications that
they submitted to the App Store.
So avoid this.
This will most certainly push
you over the limit for being
able to download over Wi-Fi.
Make sure that you're doing a SVN export
as opposed to an SVN checkout.
before you actually submit
something to the App Store.
When it comes to backup performance,
you need to make sure that you're storing
your data in the appropriate places.
So if you have user data,
things that you want to be backed up,
things that your application
is going to need to continue to
get at because it contains vital
information about what is actually
in your application for that user,
put it in the documents directory.
We'll go ahead and take care of
backing that up any time the user
syncs their phone with iTunes.
However,
if you have temporary files or caches,
well,
make sure the caches go into library
caches and make sure the temporary
files go into the temp directory.
We'll take care of cleaning those up
on regular bases and we won't sync
those over as part of the iTunes sync.
This is key because this way
you're shaving down the amount
of time a user is going to have
to spend syncing their phone.
I said this earlier,
but you also want to make sure that
you take advantage of using ping files.
Pings are optimized for you.
But in addition to that,
there are some other files
that we also optimize,
specifically, P lists.
We take property lists and convert
them to a compact binary format
during compilation with Xcode.
Now, you can use these property lists
for storing structured data,
things that you would
normally put into XML.
And when they get converted
to this compact binary format,
it's actually much more efficient
for the frameworks to be able to
load this data in the first place.
They can merely load this off
disk and they don't have to do
any complicated text parsing.
They just get the objects in
memory ready for you to work with.
Now this goes beyond just data that
you're storing in your application.
If you've got a server
that you're talking to,
it might make sense for you to have
your server send down binary P lists
as opposed to sending down big XML,
which is expensive to parse.
If you can send down a binary P list,
it's potentially less bandwidth
and it's also less processing work
that you have to do on iPhone.
All right, so that's files and data.
Let's go ahead and hop into
power and battery life.
So we're going to cover
a few topics here.
We're going to talk about the
different radios on iPhone.
We're going to talk about core location
and also take a look at the CPU and
the GPU for some general best practice.
Now when it comes to the radios,
I'm not talking about listening to music,
I'm talking about the
actual cellular radios.
Now in this case,
let's start off with 3G.
Sending data on 3G is very expensive.
In fact, it's one of the most expensive
things that you can do on iPhone.
Now the way that 3G is
actually designed and specced,
the 3G networks actually require
the phone to stay in a high power
state for a few seconds after that
last packet is sent or received.
So you might be transmitting some
data and assuming that you're only
spending a small amount of time
actually doing that transmission,
but actually the radio has had to
stay up for a lot longer in order to
actually complete that transmission.
And again, this is just part of
the way that 3G works.
Now this can be particularly
bad if you're just sending small
little packets of data regularly,
because you might end up keeping
the 3G radio in a high power
state for a long period of time.
So you want to try to make sure that you
optimize your transmissions around 3G.
You want to make sure that you're
coalescing the data that you
want to send into larger chunks,
rather than just a thin stream
of a few packets at a time.
You also want to make sure that
you minimize the amount of data
that you actually transmit,
so using compact formats, for example.
What I like to recommend is that
you adopt an algorithm to help
you coalesce these transmissions.
Now to do that,
you probably want to develop some
sort of system where basically
you input some data that needs
to be sent out to the network,
and maybe you keep track of
the time that you enqueued it,
for example.
And then you either wait until you reach
a sufficient amount of data to send,
or until a sufficiently large
period of time has passed that,
you know,
it's just time to go ahead and take
care of sending whatever is here,
something that might be a few seconds,
five to ten seconds, for example.
Now when it comes to using Wi-Fi,
Wi-Fi does use less power than 3G,
but it still uses a fair bit.
Now the good part is that
the Wi-Fi radios can go quiet
immediately after transmission.
You can detect whether
you're on Wi-Fi versus cell,
and in this case,
this is when you're going to
want to perhaps adapt how much
data coalescing you actually do.
You can get at this through the
system configuration framework,
and then use that to sort of
adapt your different behavior.
Now, 2G has power consumption that is
somewhere between 3G and Wi-Fi,
but 2G obviously takes
longer to send data.
Now, the benefit with 2G is that the 2G
radio can actually go quiet immediately
once it's done transmitting data,
but again,
the actual transmission took longer,
so it's a bit of a wash in the end.
Ultimately, you'll still want to make
sure that you're coalescing
activity when you're on 2G.
Alright, let's talk about core location.
So lots of apps use Core Location,
and with good reason.
It's a fantastic technology.
You get the ability to help change
how your application works for your
user based on where they are in
the world and provide really rich,
context-sensitive information to them.
Now Core Location lets you know where a
user is to varying degrees of accuracy.
And it's these different
degrees of accuracy that have
different power considerations.
So you want to make sure you use the
least amount of accuracy necessary
for what you're trying to accomplish.
Now the default for Core Location is
to use this CL location accuracy best,
i.e.
the most expensive.
So chances are you want to go ahead and
move down to something a little less
precise depending on your application.
If, for example,
you just care that somebody is
in the city of San Francisco,
you don't want to ask what street
corner in San Francisco they
happen to be standing on.
So use something like CL location
accuracy kilometer or perhaps 100 meters.
You also want to make sure that you
properly set the distance filter.
Now,
the distance filter is going to dictate
how often CoreLocation tries to go back
and reassess a user's location based on
how far we think they've actually moved.
So you want to set this appropriately.
For example, if all you care about are
particularly large chunks of movement,
then don't set the distance
filter to something like 1,
which would be one meter, for example.
Now, the default here is the
distance filter set to none,
which receives all movement updates.
So make sure you set this to
something that's reasonable.
Having all the movement updates come in
takes a lot of CPU time and also just
takes a lot of power from the device.
Now most importantly,
if all you need is a single fix
on where a user happens to be,
get that location fix and then
call Stop Updating Location.
CoreLocation manages all the
interaction with the GPS power for you,
and so by calling Stop Updating Location,
CoreLocation now knows that you're
done and can stop using the GPS.
Alright,
let's talk about the CPU and the GPU.
So it's important to remember
that every single increase in
performance in your application,
everything that you can make faster,
results in less time on the CPU.
And less time on the CPU means
more time the CPU can go to sleep,
which means less power
consumption overall.
So you need to go in and try to
eke out every single performance
improvement you can in your app.
Every percentage that you shave
off translates directly into
better battery life for your user.
Now when it comes to
polling versus events,
really polling is something you
should avoid if at all possible.
iPhone OS is highly event based.
We've got events for almost everything
that you'd want to listen to.
So try to avoid polling
if at all possible.
You want to subscribe to events
that actually have a notification
and we'll make sure we deliver the
appropriate information to you.
But if you must poll,
make sure you use a timer
with a low frequency.
So something on the order
of a few seconds or more,
not so much.
something that's 30 times a second,
60 times a second, etc.
A great example of this in iPhone
OS 3.0 is the new Shake API.
So instead of having to monitor
the accelerometer directly,
you now can get specific
notifications for certain types
of motion from the device.
You also want to try to make sure
that you are being as bursty as
possible with your actual execution.
Now, this is similar to how you would
work with the network traffic
that I talked about earlier.
You want to try to consolidate that
CPU usage into these different bursts.
This allows the CPU to
enter an idle state,
and it may require some restructuring
of your code or a different algorithm,
but it can have very positive impact.
For example,
when we actually play back audio
through something like this,
we can see that the CPU is being bursted.
For example,
when we actually play back audio
through something like this,
we can see that the CPU is being bursted.
For example,
when we actually play back audio
through something like this,
we can see that the CPU is being bursted.
Now when it comes to the GPU,
you want to make sure that
when you're using OpenGL that
you pick a fixed frame rate,
usually something like 30 fips.
And if a frame hasn't changed,
don't redraw it.
So if you've got like a chess game,
for example, where the user's going to be
spending most of their time looking
at the pieces and trying to figure
out where they want to move,
if you don't have to redraw, don't.
Alright,
so we looked at a bunch of different
information about the radios
and how to coalesce your data,
core location and only using
the accuracy that you need and
making sure that you unsubscribe,
and for the CPU and the GPU,
optimizing as much performance
as you can and being bursty.
So we've looked at a lot of topics today.
We talked about drawing and scrolling
to help your application perform
even faster in those table views.
We took a look at application
launch and how you can be lazy.
We took a really in-depth look at memory
usage and talked a lot about memory
warnings and how you can help relinquish
memory and help the system out.
We took a look at files and data
and being as fast as possible
with how you work with your data.
And finally,
we looked at power and battery
life and the different subsystems
and how you work with them.
Again,
you can always reach me if you have
any questions at jurewitz@apple.com
or feel free to consult the iPhone dev
portal at developer.apple.com/iphone.